Let's go ahead and get started by creating a new project, so have Android Studio open.
I say file new project such and it's going to be an empty compose activity.
Say next.
And in this case here, I'm actually going to go to a folder that I've already created where this will
live and you can just pick whatever you want.
But for me, I'm going to go to a special place called Jet Base Card like that.
There you go.
And I say open when I say finish going to start.
So the Gradle is building everything in the background so we can create a new project.
Now, the reason why you see all of this is because this is actually connected to GitHub repo.
So that's why we have all this.
They rig me and so forth.
OK, so you won't see any of this.
So that's totally fine.
After a few moments, should be able to see a project like this.
There's a lot of code that comes with these preconfigured project, as you see here.
So there's a few things that may be shaky at this moment because we've never seen it.
But I also want to remind you that this small app we're going to be building, it's just going to be
something to show off per se.
What can be done with Android Compose, Jetpack Compose?
OK, so at this point, I'm just assuming that you knew and we just want to get something to go right
away.
OK, so if you don't understand a few things here, in fact, it is expected that you want to understand
everything that is OK.
Again, I repeat that Estoril, OK, just go along with the ride.
I'm just going to show you how to build a business card to show off, as I said, what can be done with
compose?
So don't worry, if you don't understand everything, we will have plenty of time to actually dig into
this whole Android jetpack composting.
OK.
All right.
Good.
OK, so what are we going to be building?
As I mentioned earlier, this is what we're going to be putting together.
So I would say it's a business card probably should call it more of an EE business card, right?
So it kind of shows you a few things that we're going to put together.
So it's going to be.
First of all, we're going to have some sort of a nice layout at the back ground and then we're going
to have an image.
Of course, we're going to have the name and then the profession.
And then, of course, the Twitter handle and then button.
So this button portfolio was once clicked.
We're going to show off some sort of a list containing projects then on this programmer has worked on,
right?
So very simplistic.
But nevertheless, it's going to hopefully get you going.
OK, let's go ahead and get started.
OK, so one thing we need to look at real quick here is what is going on.
So first of all, we have this main activity class, which in this case inherits from component activity
and we have the override on create.
So this is where essentially the entry point of an Android application.
OK.
So the thing you notice also here is that we have this set content method, if you will.
This is actually lambda.
But don't worry, we never talked about Lambda.
We haven't talked about lambda before.
So this is this is fine.
So just think of a block of code where we can actually pass another block of code, which we can also
pass on a block of code, as you can see.
OK?
So we to set content, as the name implies, this is we are going to set any kind of the view of the
activity and then we pass here this based card theme.
So this is all created.
Remember, this is not something that we have written ourselves.
This comes when we use the wizard to create a compose application.
So all of this is given so small pieces here.
And then we have this surface thing looks like a class looks like method.
We don't know what this is yet, but what we know is the surface.
What he does is we are able to pass in a color.
So it goes to material.
Themes go, it gets colors and then get the background color, OK?
And then of course, there is a block of code that we can pass inside of the surface.
So if you think about this, this surface is going to be some sort of a canvas.
It makes sense, right?
So instead of like canvas, we're saying we're going to pass something else.
In this case, it's going to be greeting, which if you click and highlighted, you can see that it
is indeed here a function which has this at composable and we get into that.
So what are we saying here?
Is that this greeting we pass in a string as you see there's a string and then it's going to do something
right?
We're going to have this text.
This text is going to have a text, obviously, and we're going to pass this name that's being passed
through our greeting function.
So that's why you say when you pass greeting, we pass Android.
We see he says, Hello, Android.
So what do we have to do right here now if you don't see this?
That probably means you have this toggle the code only toggle.
So I'll have to do is just go to split mode to be able to preview what we have here.
In fact, you can also move to the right to make it smaller or larger.
What's actually happening here is that if you scroll back down here, you'll see that we have another
function called default preview again.
All of these was created by our Wizard of Android Studio, and they're all for that so that we have
some sort of a basic skeleton of a composer.
So this default preview here is what's being called, in fact, if you make this a little bit bigger
again, in fact you can't quite.
But if you have over here, you will see it's calling default preview, right?
So this is what it's being called to render here.
All right.
So that means then notice.
We also call in the greeting and passing the android.
So what's happening here, this greeting that's been passed?
It's not what we are seeing here.
This will be seen if we run this application right to push that onto an aim later.
All right.
So if I come here and say and I change this to something very issue, you'll notice I come up here now
at the top.
I'm going to refresh.
In fact, I didn't have to because I went directly to this default preview and it changed there.
So it's really nice because we're able then to change things or create what they call composable.
So essentially, these functions that we can actually preview pieces of code to create a user interface,
and we can see that preview here as opposed to having to run the application onto the emulator and so
forth.
All right.
So just a few basics here.
And remember, this is just the beginning.
We will go through all these things that we have many hours coming up.
What are we going through?
All of this in more detail?
Again, I just want to get you going real quick here, but I thought I will just give you a small preview
of what's going on.
No pun intended, of course.
All right.
Very good.
So what are we going to do is I'm going to get rid of this.
That, of course, is going to have a problem because the function that we just got rid of, it's been
called in two places.
So that's not a problem.
And I'm going to also get rid of that, OK, and get rid of that.
And that would having a problem.
And what I'm going to do, then I'm going to go ahead and say at start typing composable like that.
So this is needed to tell the compiler that this is a composable function, which means it's part of
the compose library, which allows us to create functions that we then are able to pass on and see the
default here, but also pass on onto our emulator.
All right, so just follow along when you say fun to say function and when it called is create like
this, create this card like that.
OK, so this is going to be our composable function that we can call anywhere we want.
But most importantly, we're going to call inside here or default view default preview should say this
when I say, create this card like that.
And of course, I'm just going to call instead of this surface here.
Let me make this a little smaller.
So perhaps we have more space here.
This is card in error.
All right.
So now if I refresh, you'll see that we're not going to have much.
In fact, we won't see anything which is a good thing because we haven't done anything inside of our
composable create base card.
Now, this may take a little while and we can always continue working on what we were doing here until
this Runescape because we're refreshing everything.
It's rendering, previewing and it may take a little bit of time.
So just be a little patient.
OK, and there we go.
As you see, we see nothing really is just a little blip of a white dot there.
We haven't done anything instead of a great base.
So let's do something.
I'm going to say Tex, right?
We want to show text.
If you start typing text again.
See, now we have this possibility of things that we can pass in, right?
Again, these are functions that come with compose library, so they are available for us to use.
So if I hit enter it, notice that I can pass text.
This is the same thing we had before.
OK.
But I'm just going to show you how all of this is created, so I'm going to say this card as such and
go ahead and refresh again.
We should now see something, hopefully.
Aha.
And there we go now we can see, says base card.
So we created a text, right, which is actually another composable that will get to that and will pass
in this card as the text will want to see.
And you can see there it is.
Based card.
Very good.
Now that's not what we want.
What we want to do is to start putting together a user interface, which means this right, this whole
enterprise, if you will.
So we're going to start really small here.
And what are we going to do is we're going to create this outer layer, as you see there.
It's it's just like a card that looks really nice with nice corner borders there.
All right.
Let's do that.
How do we do that?
Well, what we can do is we can, of course, use what compose already gives to us.
So the first thing I'm going to do, I'm going to put it inside of a surface.
Yes, and its surface, so it's surface in this case is just a canvas whenever we want to create something
that will be shown on the screen.
We use a surface.
There are other surfaces or other subtypes of surface, but we're going to start with the surface because
this is going to be the main background, if you will.
So I'm going to get enter and this may happen.
So it's just importing the whole namespace, if you will.
So or package.
So here, as you can see, a lot of things are showing here.
So we have Andrew X composed material that's not interesting to us.
We can actually just get rid of that.
Or I'll show you later how to automatically get rid of that.
That's fine.
So our surface here allows us to pass a few parameters so things that we can pass here to say, OK,
how is this surface going to appear on this week?
So what I'm going to.
You hear I'm going to take with me, I'm going to say modifier, right?
And he cannot say modifier, as the name implies, allows us to modify this entire surface so we can
actually customize it, make it look good.
All right.
So there are a lot of properties we can pass with a modifier.
So the first thing we want to do want to make sure that we make this whole surface, this whole canvas,
to feel max width.
So when I started typing feel like this and you can see I have options so it can go up and down until
you find the right option right to the max width like that.
OK.
And then still is sort of this modifier, right?
So I'm going to go ahead and say, Dad, we're going to access another property, which is the fill
max height like that?
OK, very good.
And you can see now we have this block that blocks here.
That means then what is it that we want to do inside of this surface?
What are we saying right now here is that we have created a second something like this that will take
up the entire space of the screen.
Now we want to say, OK, what is that we're going to put inside of this thing?
All right.
Well, let's go ahead and refresh.
First of all, the entire surface to see what's going to happen.
And voila!
And as you do that, you can see now we have the surface, it's a little bit bigger.
So you can see there it is.
Our surface is taking up all this space.
In fact, make this a better site so you can toggle here to Zoom to fit the screen, or you can make
it larger by zooming in or zooming out.
OK, there we go.
So now you see, we have a surface.
This is good.
So we have an android lining canvas where we can work in.
So that's all we did inside of it to create be card surface there.
So now inside here we can do the work we want, right?
So inside of our surface now inside of this block here, right?
This is where we can start putting things into our user interface, namely something like this.
All right.
We're going to continue in the next video.